---
id: 9b3ba232-531a-490c-b762-7b188f8118fa
blueprint: destination-catalog
use_cases:
  - "Movable Ink uses the data available via Amplitude's User Profile API to automatically generate content that is personalized to each user's behavior and preferences. This can significantly increase engagement rates, as content that resonates with the individual's interests and behaviors is more likely to capture attention and drive action."
  - 'The integration allows marketers to incorporate dynamic, personalized content into various customer engagement channels. This means that emails, in-app messages, and other forms of communication can include content that adapts to user data in real-time, providing a tailored experience for each recipient.'
  - "Through Amplitude's User Profile API, Movable Ink has access to a rich set of user data, including user properties, computed user properties, cohort memberships, and recommendations. This data is instrumental in creating highly targeted and relevant content for different segments of the user base."
short_description: 'Movable Ink activates data into personalized content in any customer engagement and is a powerful extension to the technologies that marketers use today.'
integration_category:
  - customer-engagement
integration_type:
  - event-streaming
  - profile-api
partner_doc_link: 'https://exchange.movableink.com/solution/amplitude'
title: 'Movable Ink (Event Stream)'
source: 'https://docs.developers.amplitude.com/data/destinations/movable-ink'
author: 0c3a318b-936a-4cbd-8fdf-771a90c297f0
partner_maintained: false
integration_icon: partner-icons/moveable-ink.svg
exclude_from_sitemap: false
updated_by: 0c3a318b-936a-4cbd-8fdf-771a90c297f0
updated_at: 1713809743
connection: destination
---
[Movable Ink](https://movableink.com) activates any data into personalized content in any customer engagement and is a powerful extension to the technologies that marketers use today. The platform easily connects to all relevant data—no matter where it lives—updates based upon a recipient's most recent interactions, and is auto-generated by the platform.

## Considerations

- You must enable this integration in each Amplitude project you want to use it in.
- You need to be an admin of a paid Movable Ink plan to enable this integration.
- Relevant limits for Movable Ink events are:
    - Movable Ink does not impose any hard limits on quantity or velocity. If you send requests  too quickly, Movable Ink returns 429 responses. Amplitude will handle these automatically. 
    - Requests must be smaller than 2MB.
- Amplitude sends select event and user properties along with the event.

## Setup

### Prerequisites

To configure an Event Streaming integration from Amplitude to Movable Ink, you need to retrieve these items from Movable Ink:

- **Tenant Token**
- **Basic Authorization Header**

### Movable Ink setup

1. Log in to your Movable Ink account.
2. Navigate to **Customer Data Endpoints** with the dropdown navigation at the top-left of the screen.
3. Click **New Endpoint**.
4. Add an Endpoint Name, Vendor, and Description. Click **Create Endpoint**.
5. Movable Ink displays an Endpoint URL. Copy this URL for use in Amplitude in the next step. Use the Access Key ID and Access Secret to create an HTTP Basic Authorization header, which you'll paste into Amplitude in the next step.

### Amplitude setup

1. In Amplitude, navigate to **Data Destinations**, then find **Movable Ink - Event Stream**.
2. Enter a sync name, then click **Create Sync**.
3. Toggle Status from **Disabled** to **Enabled**.
4. Paste your **Endpoint URL (taken from the Movable Ink platform)**.
5. Paste in your **Basic Authorization Header Value**.
6. Toggle the **Send events**.
7. In **Select and filter events** choose which events you want to send. Choose only the events you need in Movable Ink. This integration does not support Transformed events.
8. (optional) In the **Select additional properties** section, select additional properties which Amplitude will send to Movable Ink. Amplitude sends only the properties you select. This integration does not support transformed event properties or transformed user properties.
9. In the **Send Users** section, be sure to enable the **Users are sent to Movable Ink** toggle to stream users and their properties to Movable Ink. When you enable this feature, Movable Ink creates or updates users whenever an event is sent to Amplitude. Amplitude also forwards [Identify API](/analytics/apis/identify-api/) calls to Movable link. This integration does not support sending users on a schedule or on demand.
10. (optional) In the **Select additional properties** section, select any additional user properties you want to send to Movable Ink. Amplitude sends only the properties you select here. This integration does not support transformed user properties. 
11. When finished, enable the destination and **Save**.


{{partial:admonition type="note" title="Extra configuration required"}}
Movable Ink requires additional data mapping in their application. Contact your Movable Ink CXM for next steps.
{{/partial:admonition}}

### Use Cases

- **Generate personalized content:** Generate personalized content relevant to each user using event data from Amplitude.
- **Analyze and Segment Users:** With Amplitude's analytics capabilities, you can analyze user behavior, identify patterns, and create segments based on specific actions or attributes. For example, you may identify a segment of users who have recently made a purchase or visited a specific page.
- **Send Event Data to Movable Ink:** After you define your segments, you can configure an integration or data pipeline to send the relevant event data from Amplitude to Movable Ink. You can do this with APIs, web hook integrations, or other methods supported by both platforms.
- **Personalized Content Generation:** Movable Ink's platform receives the event data from Amplitude and uses it to dynamically generate personalized content for each individual recipient. The content can be tailored based on the user's recent interactions, such as showcasing related products, displaying personalized recommendations, or referencing specific actions they have taken.
