---
id: 13a22669-5b4e-4d55-b942-3b842ad48b56
blueprint: source-catalog
use_cases:
  - "Receiving events from Amplitude to Snowflake facilitates the integration of Amplitude's event data into Snowflake's cloud-based data warehousing platform. This integration allows businesses to centralize their data storage and analysis, leveraging Snowflake's scalable architecture and advanced analytics capabilities. By setting up recurring syncs through the Amplitude UI, organizations can ensure that their Snowflake data is continuously updated with the latest Amplitude events, providing real-time insights into user behavior and engagement patterns."
  - "Sending events from Snowflake to Amplitude streamlines the process of exporting data from Snowflake directly into Amplitude for further analysis and visualization. This integration enables organizations to preprocess and manipulate their data within Snowflake before sending it to Amplitude, enhancing data quality and accuracy. Businesses can leverage Snowflake's powerful querying and transformation capabilities to perform complex data operations and derive valuable insights, which can then be utilized within Amplitude to drive informed decision-making and personalized user experiences."
short_description: 'Snowflake makes it easy to amass all your data, enable rapid analytics, and derive data-driven insights for all your business users.'
integration_category:
  - data-warehouse-data-lake
integration_type:
  - raw-events
  - group-properties
  - user-properties
partner_doc_link: 'https://app.snowflake.com/marketplace/providers/GZSNZQLF0/Amplitude?search=amplitude'
title: 'Snowflake Data Import'
source: 'https://www.docs.developers.amplitude.com/data/sources/snowflake/'
category: Warehouse
author: 0c3a318b-936a-4cbd-8fdf-771a90c297f0
connection: source
partner_maintained: false
integration_icon: partner-icons/snowflake.svg
exclude_from_sitemap: false
updated_by: 5817a4fa-a771-417a-aa94-a0b1e7f55eae
updated_at: 1726777780
---
With Amplitude's Snowflake integration, you can ingest Snowflake data directly into your Amplitude project. This article walks you through the steps needed to make that happen.


## Considerations

- Depending on your company's network policy, you may need add these IP addresses to your allowlist in order for Amplitude's servers to access your Snowflake instance:

    - Amplitude US IP addresses:
        - 52.33.3.219
        - 35.162.216.242
        - 52.27.10.221 
    - Amplitude EU IP addresses:
        - 3.124.22.25
        - 18.157.59.125
        - 18.192.47.195

## Limits

- Maximum running time for a single Snowflake SQL query is 12 hours.
{{partial:admonition type="warning" title="User and Group properties sync"}}
Amplitude's Data Warehouse Import sometimes processes events in parallel, so time-ordered syncing of user and group properties on events isn't guaranteed in the same way as submitting events directly to the Identify and Group Identify APIs. 
{{/partial:admonition}}

## Add Snowflake as a Source

To add Snowflake as a data source in your Amplitude project, follow these steps:

1. In Amplitude Data, navigate to **Catalog → Sources**.

2. In the Warehouse Sources section, click **Snowflake**.

3. Enter the required credentials for the Snowflake instance you want to connect:

    - **Account**: Snowflake account name. Case sensitive. This is the first part of your Snowflake URL, before `snowflakecomputing.com`. Don't include ".snowflakecomputing.com" in your account name.
    - **Database**: Name of the database where Amplitude can find the data.
    - **Warehouse**: Used by Amplitude to execute SQL.
    - **Username**: Used by Amplitude for authentication.
    - **Password**: Used by Amplitude for authentication.

   Amplitude offers password-based and key pair authentication for Snowflake.

    - If you want to use password authentication, select **Password** and enter your password in the **Password** field.
    - If you want to use key pair authentication, select **Key pair** and then click **Generate Key**. Then provide the organization and account names in the format `ORGNAME-ACCOUNTNAME`.

4. Copy the autogenerated SQL query and run it in Snowflake to give Amplitude the proper permissions.

5. After running the query, click **Next** to test the connection.

6. After the test is successful, click **Next** again to move on to the data selection stage.

7. Choose the import strategy and configure the data feed type as described in the [Select Import Strategy and Change Data Feed Type](#select-import-strategy-and-change-data-feed-type) section.

## Select import strategy and change data feed type

Amplitude's Snowflake Data Import supports multiple strategies for importing data from Snowflake. Selecting the appropriate import strategy and change data feed type is crucial for ensuring that your data is accurately and efficiently imported into Amplitude.

### Select the data type

- **Event**: User actions associated with either a user ID or a device ID. May also include event properties.
- **User Properties**: Dictionaries of user attributes that can be used to segment users. Associated with a user ID.
- **Group Properties**: Dictionaries of group attributes applied to a group of users. Associated with a group name.
- **Profiles**: Dictionaries of properties that are associated with a user profile. Profiles always display the most current data synced from your warehouse. Associated with a user ID.

### Select the import strategy

- **Full Sync** (only for user and group properties): Periodically ingest the entire dataset, regardless of whether that data has already been imported. Useful for datasets that change over time but have no easy way to tell which rows have changed.
- **Timestamp** (for events, user and group properties): Periodically ingest the most recent rows in the data, as determined by the provided Timestamp column.
- **Change Data Capture** (for events and profiles): Periodically ingest data based on changes detected by Snowflake's Change Data Capture (CDC) feature.

### Choose a data feed type

{{partial:admonition type="tip" heading=""}}
This step applies only to the Change Data Capture import strategy.
{{/partial:admonition}}

If you selected the Change Data Capture import strategy for Event import, you must choose the change data feed type:

- **Ingestion Only**: Ingest data warehouse data with Amplitude's out-of-the-box enrichment services (ID resolution, property and attribution syncing, resolving location info, etc.).
- **Continuous Sync**: Directly mirror the data in Snowflake with insert, update, and delete operations. This deactivates Amplitude's enrichment services to remain in sync with your source of truth.

### Data mutability settings

{{partial:admonition type="note" heading="Data Mutability settings"}}
If you chose Continuous Sync in the previous step, enable or disable the ability to update and delete data records.
{{/partial:admonition}}

### Choose the best integration for your use case

When choosing an integration strategy, consider the following:

- **Full Sync**: Choose this option if you need to periodically ingest the entire dataset and can't track which rows have changed. This method is best for smaller datasets in which you can't track incrementally. This method isn't suitable for large datasets due to the overhead required to ingest all data each time.

- **Timestamp Import**: Choose this option if you can incrementally import data using a monotonically increasing timestamp column that indicates when records when Snowflake loads the records. This is efficient and works well when you append new data with timestamps.

- **Change Data Capture (CDC) Ingestion Only**: Choose this option to import data based on changes detected by Snowflake's CDC feature while still using Amplitude's enrichment services. This method only supports insert operations.

- **Change Data Capture (CDC) Continuous Sync**: Choose this option to directly mirror the data in Snowflake with insert, update, and delete operations. This method disables Amplitude's enrichment services to remain in sync with your source of truth and is ideal when you need to keep Amplitude data fully synchronized with your Snowflake data, including mutations.

{{partial:partials/data/snowflake-strat-comp}}

### Prerequisites and considerations for CDC

When using CDC Continuous Sync, be aware of the following limitations:

- **Enable Change Tracking**: Enable change tracking for the source table or view. See [Enabling Change Tracking on Views and Underlying Tables](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/streams-manage.html#label-enabling-change-tracking-views) in Snowflake's documentation.

- **Data Retention Settings**: `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS` must be greater than or equal to `1`, but Amplitude recommends at least `7` days. Otherwise, the change-based import fails. For more details, see [Time Travel](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-time-travel) in Snowflake's documentation. Setting `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS` to `0` disables the change tracking and causes the connection to become unrecoverable. If this happens, recreate the source.

- **Unique and Immutable `insert_id`**: Ensure the data to be imported has a unique and immutable `insert_id` for each row to prevent data duplication if there are any unexpected issues. More about Amplitude deduplication and `insert_id` is available in [Event Deduplication](/docs/apis/analytics/http-v2/#event-deduplication).

- **Complex SQL Statements**: If a data source is represented as a complex SQL `SELECT` statement (for instance, with a `JOIN` clause), create a `VIEW` in your Snowflake account that wraps the data source to use it with a change-based import strategy.

- **Avoid Table Deletion and Recreation**: Don't delete and recreate tables with the same name, as Snowflake CDC doesn't capture changes in this scenario. Use [incremental models](todo) with tools like dbt to prevent table replacement.

- **Column Deletion or Renaming**: Be aware that Snowflake CDC doesn't capture changes when a column you delete or rename. Column deletion doesn't sync to Amplitude.

- **Views with JOINs**: While Snowflake CDC is efficient, using Streams on Views that contain JOINs can have performance implications. Consider syncing joined data as User Profiles instead.

- **Disable Change Tracking**: If you disable change tracking in Snowflake or disconnect the Amplitude source for a period longer than the value of `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS`, Amplitude loses the ability to track historical changes. In this case, recreate the connection. To avoid duplicate events, ensure all events have an `insert_id` set, and recreate the connection within seven days.

- **Amplitude Enrichment Services Disabled**: When using CDC **Continuous Sync**, Amplitude disables enrichment services like ID resolution, property and attribution syncing, and resolving location info to remain in sync with your source of truth.

## Migrate from custom SQL to CDC

To change the modeling method of your Snowflake source:

1. (Optional, recommended). Ensure the data you plan to import has a unique and immutable `insert_id` in each row to prevent data duplication. For more information, see [Data deduplication](/docs/apis/analytics/http-v2/#event-deduplication).
2. If the source uses complex SQL, including `JOIN` and `WHERE` clauses:
      1. Create a [`VIEW`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/views-introduction) in your Snowflake account that wraps the data source.
      2. Enable [Change Tracking](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/streams-manage.html#label-enabling-change-tracking-views) on the new view.
      3. Update the current Snowflake SQL import configuration to use the newly created view. Record the time of the update.
      4. Ensure `Data synced as of` is greater than the time recorded in the previous step to prevent potential data discrepancy and failure to identify the data drift after the latest completed import job.
3. Enable [Change Tracking](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/streams-manage.html#label-enabling-change-tracking-views) on the source table or view, if you haven't done so. Record the time of the update.
4. Ensure the existing connection has `Data synced as of` (presented on the source detail page) on or after `October 1, 2023, 12:00 AM UTC`. If it doesn't, either re-enable the connection and wait for `Data synced as of` to advance or consider creating a new import connection. Otherwise, Amplitude imports all data from the current source, which may cause data duplication.
5. Ensure `Data synced as of` is greater than the time recorded in the step 3 to prevent potential data discrepancy and failure to identify the data drift after the latest completed import job.
6. Disable the source from the *Manage Import Settings* dialog. If the source has a status of In-Progress, wait for the job to complete and the status changes to Disabled.
7. Navigate to *Edit Import Config* and click *Convert To Table Select Import*.
8. Re-enable the source.
9. Monitor incoming data for one day to ensure the import works as expected.

### Roll back to a custom SQL connection

To revert to a custom SQL connection from an already migrated source, open the source configuration and click *Revert to SQL Query Import*.

{{partial:admonition type="info" title="Snowflake data sources"}}
When you roll back from the Change Data Capture to Custom SQL connection in the, use the same data source (table or view) in Snowflake to avoid inconsistencies.
{{/partial:admonition}}

## Data fields

Include the mandatory fields for the data type when you create the SQL query. These tables outline the mandatory and optional fields for each data type. Find a list of other supported fields for events in the [HTTP V2 API documentation](/docs/apis/analytics/http-v2/#keys-for-the-event-argument) and  for user properties in the [Identify API documentation](/docs/apis/analytics/identify/#identification-parameter-keys). Add any columns not in those lists to either `event_properties` or `user_properties`, otherwise it's ignored. 

### Events
<!-- vale off-->
| Column name (must be lowercase) | Mandatory                           | Column data type                     | Example                                       |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- |
| `user_id`                       | Yes, unless `device_id` is used     | VARCHAR                              | datamonster@gmail.com                         |
| `device_id`                     | Yes, unless `user_id` is used       | VARCHAR                              | C8F9E604-F01A-4BD9                            |
| `event_type`                    | Yes                                 | VARCHAR                              | watch_tutorial                                |
| `time`                          | Yes                                 | Milliseconds since epoch (Timestamp) | 1396381378123                                 |
| `event_properties`              | Yes                                 | VARIANT (JSON Object)                | {"source":"notification", "server":"host-us"} |
| `user_properties`               | No                                  | VARIANT (JSON Object)                | {"city":"chicago", "gender":"female"}         |
| `update_time_column`            | No (Yes if using time based import) | TIMESTAMP_NTZ                        | 2013-04-05 01:02:03.000                       |

Find other supported fields can in the [HTTP V2 API documentation](/docs/apis/analytics/http-v2/#upload-request-headers).

### User properties

| Column name (must be lowercase) | Mandatory                           | Column data type      | Example                               |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `user_id`                       | Yes                                 | VARCHAR               | datamonster@gmail.com                 |
| `user_properties`               | Yes                                 | VARIANT (JSON Object) | {"city":"chicago", "gender":"female"} |
| `update_time_column`            | No (Yes if using time based import) | TIMESTAMP_NTZ         | 2013-04-05 01:02:03.000               |

Find other supported fields in the [Identify API documentation](/docs/apis/analytics/identify/#identification-parameter-keys).

<!--vale on-->
### Group properties

| Column name (must be lowercase) | Mandatory                           | Column data type      | Example                                                |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `groups`                        | Yes                                 | VARIANT (JSON Object) | {"company":"amplitude", "team":["marketing", "sales"]} |
| `group_properties`              | Yes                                 | VARIANT (JSON Object) | {"location":"seattle", "active":"true"}                |
| `update_time_column`            | No (Yes if using time based import) | TIMESTAMP_NTZ         | 2013-04-05 01:02:03.000                                |

Each group property in `group_properties` would apply to every group in `groups`.

To use a group property:

- Set group properties. The following is an example of how you can do it in Snowflake Group Property Import:

  ```SQL
  SELECT OBJECT_CONSTRUCT('customerId', account_id)                      AS "groups",          -- must be JSON
        OBJECT_CONSTRUCT('companyName', name, 'customerType', type) AS "group_properties" -- must be JSON
  FROM "AMPLITUDE"."DWH"."ACCOUNTS"
  ```

- Send events with group properties associated. These can be dummy events, so long as the user ID and groups are there. Specify the following in your Snowflake Event Import:

  ```SQL
  "groups": {"customerId": <account_id>}
  ```

## SQL query examples

To make the data selection step a bit easier, here are few example SQL snippets to get you started.

### Event data example

```sql
SELECT
    EVENT_TYPE_COLUMN AS "event_type",
    EVENT_PROPERTIES_VARIANT_COLUMN AS "event_properties",
    TIME_EPOCH_MS_COLUMN AS "time",
    USER_ID_COLUMN AS "user_id",
    USER_PROPERTIES_VARIANT_COLUMN AS "user_properties"
FROM DATABASE_NAME.SCHEMA_NAME.TABLE_OR_VIEW_NAME
```

### User property example

```sql
SELECT
    USER_ID_COLUMN AS "user_id",
    USER_PROPERTIES_VARIANT_COLUMN AS "user_properties"
FROM DATABASE_NAME.SCHEMA_NAME.TABLE_OR_VIEW_NAME
```

### Group property example

```sql
SELECT
    GROUPS_OBJ AS "groups",
    GROUP_PROPS_OBJ AS "group_properties"
FROM DATABASE_NAME.SCHEMA_NAME.TABLE_OR_VIEW_NAME
```

### Common snippets

Creating a JSON Object:

`OBJECT_CONSTRUCT('city', CITY, 'state', STATE) as "user_properties"`

Converting timestamp column to milliseconds:

`DATE_PART('EPOCH_MILLISECOND', TIMESTAMP_COLUMN) as "time"`

Converting milliseconds to TIMESTAMP_NTZ format needed for time-based import. This example uses the `scale` argument set to `3` to convert to milliseconds. See the [Snowflake documentation](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/functions/to_timestamp.html) for more details.

`TO_TIMESTAMP_NTZ(TIME_COLUMN_IN_MILLIS, 3) as "update_time_column"`

Converting a timestamp column with a timezone to TIMESTAMP_NTZ format needed for time-based import.

`TO_TIMESTAMP_NTZ(CONVERT_TIMEZONE('UTC', TIMESTAMP_TZ_COLUMN)) as "update_time_column"`